AKS on Azure Stack HCI (#393)
microsoft/azure_arc: docs/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_k8s/aks_stack_hci/aks_hci_powershell/_index.md

    ServicePrincipalNames : {XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX, http://AzureArcK8s}
    ApplicationId         : XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
    ObjectType            : ServicePrincipal
    DisplayName           : AzureArcK8s
    Id                    : XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
    Type                  :
    ```

    To expose the generated password use this code to export the secret: 

    ```poweshell
    $BSTR = [System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal]::SecureStringToBSTR($sp.Secret)
    $UnsecureSecret = [System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal]::PtrToStringAuto($BSTR)
    ```

    > **Note: It is optional but highly recommended to scope the SP to a specific [Azure subscription and resource group](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.resources/new-azadserviceprincipal?view=azps-5.4.0)**

* Enable your subscription with the two resource providers for Azure Arc enabled Kubernetes. Registration is an asynchronous process, and registration may take approximately 10 minutes.

  ```powershell
  Register-AzResourceProvider -ProviderNamespace Microsoft.Kubernetes
  Register-AzResourceProvider -ProviderNamespace Microsoft.KubernetesConfiguration

>   ```

Reviewer: add validation commands

Author: added

---
type: docs
title: "AKS on Azure Stack HCI PowerShell"
linkTitle: "AKS on Azure Stack HCI PowerShell"
weight: 1
description: >
---

> ## Deploy AKS cluster on Azure Stack HCI and connect it to Azure Arc using PoweSh

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Deploy AKS cluster on Azure Stack HCI and connect it to Azure Arc using PoweShell
```

> The following README will guide you on how to use the provided PowerShell script to deploy an [Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/intro-kubernetes) cluster on [Azure Stack HCI](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure-stack/hci/overview) and connected it as an Azure Arc cluster resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following guide will guide you on how to use the provided PowerShell script to deploy an [Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/intro-kubernetes) cluster on [Azure Stack HCI](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure-stack/hci/overview) and connected it as an Azure Arc cluster resource.
```

Azure Kubernetes Service on Azure Stack HCI is an implementation of AKS on-premises using hyperconverged infrastructure operating system that is delivered as an Azure service.  

  > **Note: Azure Kubernetes Service is now in preview on Azure Stack HCI and on Windows Server 2019 Datacenter.**

  > **Note: Currently, Azure Arc enabled Kubernetes is in [public preview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-arc/kubernetes/).**

> This guide will not provide instructions on how to deploy and set up Azure Stack HCI, it assumes you already have a configured cluster. This README will guide you on how to create an AKS cluster on your HCI and onboard it to Azure Arc in an automated fashion using PowerShell. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide will not provide instructions on how to deploy and set up Azure Stack HCI and it assumes you already have a configured cluster. 
```
```suggestion
This guide will not provide instructions on how to deploy and set up Azure Stack HCI, it assumes you already have a configured cluster. This README will guide you on how to create an AKS cluster on your HCI and onboard it to Azure Arc in an automated fashion using PowerShell. 
```

    ObjectType            : ServicePrincipal
    DisplayName           : AzureArcK8s
    Id                    : XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
    Type                  :
    ```

    To expose the generated password use this code to export the secret: 

    ```poweshell
    $BSTR = [System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal]::SecureStringToBSTR($sp.Secret)
    $UnsecureSecret = [System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal]::PtrToStringAuto($BSTR)
    ```

    > **Note: It is optional but highly recommended to scope the SP to a specific [Azure subscription and resource group](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.resources/new-azadserviceprincipal?view=azps-5.4.0)**

* Enable your subscription with the two resource providers for Azure Arc enabled Kubernetes. Registration is an asynchronous process, and registration may take approximately 10 minutes.

  ```powershell
  Register-AzResourceProvider -ProviderNamespace Microsoft.Kubernetes
  Register-AzResourceProvider -ProviderNamespace Microsoft.KubernetesConfiguration
  Get-AzResourceProvider -ListAvailable | Select-Object ProviderNamespace, RegistrationState | Select-String  -Pattern "Microsoft.Kubernetes"
  ```

> * Perform a clean install of the AksHci PowerShell module. To install the AksHci Powershell module remove previous versions by running the commands below: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Perform a clean installation of the AksHci PowerShell module. To install the AksHci PowerShell module remove any previous versions by running the below commands: 
```

  Unregister-PSRepository -Name AksHciPSGalleryPreview -ErrorAction:SilentlyContinue
  Exit
  ```
* Using a web browser navigate to https://aka.ms/AKS-HCI-Evaluate, complete the registration form, download and save AKS on Azure Stack HCI. Extract the contents of the zip file. 

* Open PowerShell as administrator, navigate to the folder where you extracted the software and run the following commands: 

  ```powershell
  Get-ChildItem -Path . -Recurse | Unblock-File -Verbose
  Import-Module AksHci
  Get-Command -Module AksHci
  ```
![Screenshot AksHci module installation](./01.png)
 
## Automation Flow

For you to get familiar with the automation and deployment flow, below is an explanation.

* User is editing the PowerShell script environment variables (1-time edit). These variables values are being used throughout the deployment and Azure Arc onboarding. 

* User is running checks on every physical node of Azure Stack HCI to see if all the requirements are satisfied. 

* User is running the PowerShell script to deploy a basic DHCP AKS cluster on Azure Stack HCI and onboard onto Azure Arc. Runtime script will:

>   * Configure the Azure Kubernetes Service cluster management services using Set-AksHciConfig cmdlet.
>   * Start the deployment of the AKS cluster management services using the Install-AksHci cmdlet. 
>   * Retrieve the Azure Kubernetes Service cluster credentials.  
>   * Create a target cluster with the number Linux and Windows nodes specified. 
>   * Onboard the AKS cluster on Azure Arc. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Configure the Azure Kubernetes Service cluster management services using _Set-AksHciConfig_ cmdlet.
  * Start the deployment of the AKS cluster management services using the _Install-AksHci_ cmdlet. 
  * Retrieve the Azure Kubernetes Service cluster credentials.  
  * Create a target cluster with the number of Linux and Windows nodes specified. 
  * Onboard the AKS cluster to Azure Arc. 
```

  
## Deployment

* Before deploying AKS on Azure Stack HCI, you need to run checks on every physical node to see if all the requirements are satisfied. Open PowerShell as an administrator and run the following command.

>   ```powershell
>   Initialize-AksHciNode
>   ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ```powershell
  Initialize-AksHciNode
  ```

```

Reviewer: add line

* Now that all nodes are ready, you will deploy the AKS control management and the target cluster to your Azure Stack HCI using this [PowerShell script](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_k8s_jumpstart/aks_stack_hci/powershell/aks_hci_deploy.ps1). Edit the file to provide the environment variables that match the parameters of your environment: 
    - **vipPoolStart:** first IP address for the cluster VIP Pool
    - **vipPoolEnd:** last IP address for the cluster VIP Pool
    - **imageDir:** path to the directory where AKS on Azure Stack HCI will store its VHD images, provide a shared path or SMB for multinode
    - **cloudConfigLocation:** path to the directory where the cloud agent will store its configuration, provide a shared path or SMB for multinode
    - **vnetName:** the name of the virtual switch to connect the virtual machines to. If you already have an external switch on the host, you should pass the name of the switch here. 

>     - **clusterName:** a name for your AKS cluster, must be lowercase. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **clusterName:** a name for your AKS cluster, **must be lowercase**. 
```

    - **controlPlaneNodeCount:** number of nodes for your control plane, should be an odd number 1, 3 or 5.
    - **linuxNodeCount:** number of Linux node VMs for your cluster, if you do not need Linux nodes input 0.
    - **windowsNodeCount:** number of Windows node VMs for your cluster, if you do not need Windows nodes input 0.

>     - **resourceGroup:** resource group to connect your Azure Arc enabled Kubernetes.
>     - **location:** Azure region to connect your Azure Arc enabled Kubernetes.
>     - **subscriptionId:** subscription to connect your Azure Arc enabled Kubernetes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **resourceGroup:** resource group to connect your Azure Arc enabled Kubernetes cluster.
    - **location:** Azure region to connect your Azure Arc enabled Kubernetes cluster.
    - **subscriptionId:** subscription to connect your Azure Arc enabled Kubernetes cluster.
```

    - **appId:** the appID of the service principal created previously.
    - **password:** the password of the service principal created.
    - **tenant:** your tenantID.

![Screenshot showing the AKS on HCI deployment script](./02.png)

* As an example: 
    - **vipPoolStart:** "192.168.0.150"
    - **vipPoolEnd:** "192.168.0.250"
    - **imageDir:** "C:\AKS-HCI\Images"
    - **cloudConfigLocation:** "C:\AKS-HCI\Config"
    - **vnetName:** "InternalNAT"
    - **clusterName:** "archcidemo"
    - **controlPlaneNodeCount:** 1
    - **linuxNodeCount:** 1
    - **windowsNodeCount:** 0
    - **resourceGroup:** "Arc-AKS-HCI-Demo"
    - **location:** westeurope
    - **subscriptionId:** "XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXX"
    - **appId:** "XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXX"
    - **password:** "XXXXXXXXXX"
    - **tenant:** "XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXX"

> * Note, that the script will deploy a simple DHCP based cluster on your Azure Stack HCI, there are additional optional parameters that you could use to customize the deployment to your own environment as described [here] (https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure-stack/aks-hci/setup-powershell). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Note that the script will deploy a simple DHCP-based cluster on your Azure Stack HCI and there are additional optional parameters that you could use to customize the deployment to your own environment as described [here] (https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure-stack/aks-hci/setup-powershell). 
```

* To run the script open PowerShell as an administrator, navigate to the [script folder](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_k8s_jumpstart/aks_stack_hci/powershell/) and run: 

  ```powershell
  .\aks_hci_deploy.ps1
  ```
![Screenshot showing the AKS on HCI deployment script running](./03.png)

![Screenshot showing the AKS on HCI deployment script running](./04.png)

  > **Note: the script may take around 30 minutes to run**

> * Once the script has completed its run 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: the screenshot is good enough. No need for this bullet point

![Screenshot showing the script output](./05.png)

* You should also see the new AKS cluster on Windows Admin Center. 

![Screenshot showing the AKS on HCI deployment Windows Admin Center](./06.png)

> * Once the script run has finished, the AKS cluster on HCI will be projected as a new Azure Arc cluster resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Once the script run has finished, the AKS cluster on HCI will be projected as a new Azure Arc enabled Kubernetes cluster resource.
```

![Screenshot showing Arc Enabled Kubernetes in RG](./07.png)

![Screenshot showing Arc Enabled Kubernetes](./08.png)

## Delete the deployment

> The most straightforward way is to delete the Azure Arc cluster resource via the Azure Portal, just select the cluster and delete it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The most straightforward way is to delete the Azure Arc enabled Kubernetes cluster resource via the Azure Portal, just select the cluster and delete it.
```

![Screenshot showing how to delete Azure Arc enabled Kubernetes resource](./09.png)

> If you want to delete the AKS cluster on HCI run the below command, this will delete all of your AKS clusters on HCI if any and the Azure Kubernetes Service host. It will also uninstall the Azure Kubernetes Service on Azure Stack HCI agents and services from the nodes. 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete the AKS cluster on HCI run the below command. This will delete all of your AKS clusters on HCI (if any) and the Azure Kubernetes Service host as well as uninstall the Azure Kubernetes Service on Azure Stack HCI agents and services from the nodes. 

```
